# Project Hark

## What is Hark?
Hark is web-based software with three primary functions: goal-setting, task management, and habit development. **Goal-setting**: prompts guide a user through the process of breaking down a goal into its component tasks and habits. **Task management**: actionable steps towards fulfilling a goal are tracked to give a user a sense of how much they have accomplished and how close they are to reaching their goal. **Habit development**: recurring tasks are tracked as habits in order to encourage completion in a regular and timely fashion.

## Who is Hark for?
Initial versions of Hark are designed for use by 12-15yo students (UK Year 7 & 10) participating in Oxbridge Academy Courses. It is intended as a supplement to in-person seminars, although future versions will be usable independent of instructor guidance, and may be more widely distributed.

## Why is Hark useful?
Recent studies have revealed a number of concerning trends in education: a general decrease in student attention span, a two-fold increase in behavioural issues, a 2y lag in social/emotional development, and a 77% increase in instances of self-harm. As a result, there is growing pressure to fold mental health and resilience training into traditional academic curriculum. Unfortunately, there are barriers to addressing these challenges; supplementary teacher training is typically slow or places additional burdens on teachers, in-person education often suffers due to the lack of time or trained experts, many online substitutes do not measure impact of their interventions, and one-on-one coaching is cost-prohibitive when scaled. There are strategies that can overcome some of these barriers, such as the use of structured goal-setting. When used properly, these methods have been shown to close attainment gaps by 98% over a two-year period and reduce anxiety by 91% in a one-year period. A digital tool such as Hark can deliver these methods to more students, more quickly, and more accurately, thus allowing the intervention to successfully scale in a cost-effective manner.

## How does Hark work?
### Goal-setting
Hark guides users through a series of prompts, beginning with the selection of a goal category from a list of fixed choices (e.g., "family", "financial", "health", "productive"). Users must then provide a natural language description for their long-term goal, and are prompted for a list of mindsets that they feel will support this goal. Mindsets are tracked as a branching tree that will be used to create relations between habits; the user may add or subtract "mindsets" at any point during or after goal-setting. Fixed prompts are used to break down the long-term goal into lower level concepts and subconcepts, ultimately arriving at a list of actionable steps, which are captured as either one-off tasks or recurring habits.

### Task Management
Tasks derived from the goal-setting process are listed by urgency using an yet-to-determined algorithm that includes priority, dependency, effort, and preference. Dynamic factors such as "time of day", "mood", or "previous task category" may be included in order to create the optimally ordered list of tasks. Standard management features should be included, such as: ability to create, modify, delete tasks; convert tasks into recurrent habits and vice versa; add dependencies between tasks; display metrics and trends for task completion, including but not limited to burndown charts comparing current progress versus ideal progress.

### Habit Development
Recurring tasks are classified as habits and are treated as a form of "task group" with additional tracking parameters. Beyond the usual features assigned to tasks, habits have additional tracking features that measure progress within a task group as opposed to at the goal level (think of this as local versus global metrics). As such, habits can be scored in terms of how well they have been adopted, recommended steps to enhance adoption, and the effect that adoption would have on overall goal attainment. The approach in habit development should not be to shame or pressure users into more frequent task completion, but to use the data from task completion to steer their efforts towards the best strategy for them (e.g., it could be that a particular user has higher task completion when certain tasks are performed in a certain order, which can be captured as a habit and then reinforced through suggestions made by the system). Tasks can be automatically grouped as habits through the goal-setting process, but they may also be generated by the user through a series of mindset prompts; users can also create habits themselves manually by grouping tasks according to similarity or dependency.